week01/html-css-advanced.md, before:

# HTML and CSS advanced


## Materials

### HTML

| Material                                                                                                |  Time |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----: |
| [HTML Tutorial for Beginners 09 - The img Tag](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g6xsNHnAmlE)             |  6:12 |
| [HTML Tutorial for Beginners 10 - HTML Links](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f8pAb3IuECk)              | 12:24 |

### CSS

| Material                                                                                                     |  Time |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----: |
| [CSS Tutorial For Beginners 10 - CSS Conflicts & the Cascade](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4oPvurjpcNw)   |  8:04 |
| [CSS Tutorial For Beginners 12 - Selector Specificty](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lZ6R_eYYxoE)           | 10:17 |
| [CSS Tutorial For Beginners 14 - Targeting Multiple Elements](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3SOf8gZlBhI)   |  4:40 |
| [CSS Tutorial For Beginners 15 - Descendant Selectors](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=84KE7OwMjYY)          |  6:22 |

Commit message:

add structure to first 2 days

week01/html-css-advanced.md, after:

# HTML and CSS advanced

## Help

- Discuss first any questions in your study group
- If you feel totally lost, try to look at these [helping materials](#materials)
- For each exercise there's an exercises specific questions page where you might find your answer or ask it if there's none

## Workshop

### Warmup with links and images

### Simple layout exercises

### Complicated layout exercises

## Materials

### HTML

| Material                                                                                                |  Time |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ----: |
| [HTML Tutorial for Beginners 09 - The img Tag](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g6xsNHnAmlE)             |  6:12 |
| [HTML Tutorial for Beginners 10 - HTML Links](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f8pAb3IuECk)              | 12:24 |

### CSS

| Material                                                                                                     |  Time |
| :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----: |
| [CSS Tutorial For Beginners 10 - CSS Conflicts & the Cascade](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4oPvurjpcNw)   |  8:04 |
| [CSS Tutorial For Beginners 12 - Selector Specificty](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lZ6R_eYYxoE)           | 10:17 |
| [CSS Tutorial For Beginners 14 - Targeting Multiple Elements](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3SOf8gZlBhI)   |  4:40 |
| [CSS Tutorial For Beginners 15 - Descendant Selectors](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=84KE7OwMjYY)          |  6:22 |
